>> Scott Moss: Yes?
>> Speaker 2: You said they run
in parallel, do they really?
>> Scott Moss: In this example,
no, they don't run in parallel.
But if you were to send.
So I don't wanna say don't,
because there is another case where,
I don't know if anyone thought of this.
But let's say you had,
let's think about it like this.
Let's say you're resolving
multiple fields on a type.
So we're resolving owner, but we're also
gonna resolve pet dot, I don't know, name.
For some reason, you wanted to capitalize
the name or something like that.
I don't know what you're gonna do to it.
But you also wanna resolve that name,
right?
Okay.
>> Scott Moss: And you have access to
the pet here just like you have access to
the pet here, okay?
But what if you need it the owner,
pet.owner, inside of pet.name,
you needed the result of whatever this
resolves to inside of this one you can't,
because these run in parallel.
These fields that get resolved for
a type, they all run a parallel.
So the pet that you see here is gonna be
the same pet that you see here before
this executes, it's not gonna be
the pet that happens after this.
So that's why I'm hesitant to say like no.
True, that those ones in
the list run serially, but
the fields that get resolved run in
parallel because you might catch
yourself in a point where you're writing
these fill level resolvers that depend
on sibling fill level resolvers and
it just doesn't work.
So I've had to have move forward,
I didn't really understand GraphQL.
So, yeah, just don't depend on
things working in a certain order.
The only order you can guarantee is that,
this is the source of truth.
The query that they send up,
that's the order.
There is no other order
that you can guarantee.
It's pretty crazy, right?
I bet you're thinking like,
it will probably be some
pretty crazy stuff about this.
The whole purpose of them creating this is
that, imagine if you're writing a client,
you're writing something to React or
whatever.
You can just write a query like this, if
you had a component that literally took in
only these fields and that's all
the needed, it's exactly what they needed.
Imagine writing a query like this and
then getting back exactly that
without having to do anything.
You can throw it straight in
your template and it just works.
That's why they made GraphQL,
it was made because of that.
Cuz you can just take data and throw it
in, and you only get back what you needed,
nothing more, you got the formatting,
you're not doing anything.
But now, it's expanding towards like all
the service type of stuff where it's like,
wait, hold on, hold on now.
GraphQL is actually pretty
dope with the server now,
you can go as crazy shit,
we didn't think about that.
It's really good for like ETO, data
pipeline, and all these other crazy stuff,
where you got two services that
don't know about each other.
But if you have a strict
contract between them two, wait,
like a schema, wait GraphQL.
So like they're doing stuff like that now.
It's a lot different.
Yes?
>> Speaker 2: So in the while is it or
like in your workplace, it's important
that you're building relationships between
like these two types like user and pet,
because you're trying to build connections
using the data for your client.
Is that kinda like the approach?
>> Scott Moss: It depends.
It depends on who your APIs for.
If it's a public API, I think you wanna
expose different avenues that allow people
to do different things,
different connections.
But internally for our products,
we build our schema based off
on what the UI needs, right?
It's usually based off a page.
It's like for this page,
we need all this stuff.
Like if there is a settings page, you
might have credit card info, user info,
subscription info, and those are all
different entities on your database.
So you'll make types for all those.
And then you'll make a query that
might just say, give me this page or
you might just make a query that just
says, I don't know, give me subscription
info and I'll link to something else and
you could compose it yourself.
We normally base it off of UI,
because that's the whole point of this.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, yeah.
>> Scott Moss: We wanna make one
call when this page loads up and
everything just goes into it.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah,
cuz I think why I had that question is cuz
you were mentioning how in
our traditional rest API,
you have to anticipate every combination
or whatever they're going to need.
And so, maybe GraphQL overcomes that
by just pre-building connections in
the same way,
>> Scott Moss: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: But maybe what you're
saying is, depending on the app,
those are the different
connections that you needed.
>> Scott Moss: Right, a 100%, cuz I
wouldn't just connect everything together.
I wouldn't go in like,
all right, make it a new type.
Let me add a field for
every other type to reference it.
I wouldn't need to do that.
It was like, okay.
Who is using this type and
why do they need it?
You'll write the code in your run into
like, okay, I'm on the profile page and
I absolutely need this thing
that's all way over here.
I can make another query or
I could just add a relationship and
just do it in one query, right?
So basically.